Welcome everyone to AI-Assisted Software Development with GitHub Copilot.
Today we'll explore how AI can enhance your development workflow
and increase productivity.
Let's start with the basics. GitHub Copilot is an AI pair programmer
that helps you write code faster.
It's powered by OpenAI's Codex model and trained on billions of lines
of public code.
The first topic we'll cover today is setting up your development environment
for AI-assisted coding.
You'll need Visual Studio Code or a JetBrains IDE, and a GitHub Copilot
subscription.
Let me show you how to install the Copilot extension and configure it
for optimal performance.
[Demonstration: Installing GitHub Copilot extension in VS Code]
Great! Now that we have Copilot installed, let's look at some basic features.
One of the most powerful features is inline code suggestions.
As you type, Copilot suggests completions.
You can accept suggestions with Tab, or see alternative suggestions
with Alt+] or Alt+[.
Let's write a simple function together and see Copilot in action.
[Live coding demonstration: Creating a user authentication function]
Notice how Copilot understood the context and suggested relevant code.
This brings us to our next major topic: understanding how context works
in GitHub Copilot.
Copilot looks at your open files, recent edits, and comments to provide
contextually relevant suggestions.
The more descriptive your comments and variable names, the better
suggestions you'll get.
Let's talk about best practices for getting the most out of Copilot.
First, write clear and descriptive comments. Copilot uses these to understand
your intent.
Second, use meaningful variable and function names. This helps Copilot
understand your code structure.
Third, break complex problems into smaller functions. Copilot works better
with focused, single-purpose functions.
Now let's discuss some advanced features, including Copilot Chat.
Copilot Chat allows you to have conversations about your code directly
in your IDE.
You can ask it to explain code, suggest improvements, or even write tests.
Let me demonstrate how to use Copilot Chat for code review and refactoring.
[Demonstration: Using Copilot Chat to refactor legacy code]
As you can see, Copilot Chat can significantly speed up code understanding
and maintenance.
Let's take a 5-minute break here, and when we return, we'll cover
testing with Copilot.
Welcome back! Let's dive into automated testing with GitHub Copilot.
Writing tests is crucial, but it can be time-consuming. Copilot can help
generate test cases.
Let's write tests for the authentication function we created earlier.
[Live coding: Generating unit tests with Copilot]
Notice how Copilot suggested both positive and negative test cases.
This brings us to our final topic: security considerations when using
AI-assisted development.
While Copilot is powerful, you should always review its suggestions
for security issues.
Never blindly accept code that handles sensitive data like passwords
or authentication tokens.
Always use established security libraries and patterns rather than
rolling your own.
Let's look at some common security pitfalls and how to avoid them.
[Discussion: SQL injection, XSS, and other security concerns]
To wrap up, let's review what we've covered today.
We learned about setting up GitHub Copilot, understanding context,
best practices, and security.
For homework, I'd like you to try using Copilot on your own projects
and document your experience.
Are there any questions before we conclude?
[Q&A Session]
Thank you all for attending! See you next session.